Hanselminutes.com. It's Hansel minutes,
a weekly discussion with web
developer and technologists. Scott Hanselman.
This is Lawrence Ryan announcing show
number three 30 recorded live
Thursday, July 26th, 2012. Support for Hanselman.
This is provided by teller.
Offering the best in developer
tools and support online@telerikdotcomandbyfranklins.net training
developers to work smarter and
now offering gesture pack a
powerful gesture, recording and recognition
system for Microsoft connect for
windows developers. details' at gesture
PA k.com. In this episode,
Scott talks with Microsoft Azure
product team member and author.
Hi, this is Scott Hanselman.
This is another episode of
Hansel minutes. And today I'm
sitting in building one Oh
nine on the Redmond campus
of Microsoft with the one
and only Mark Russinovich. How
are you, sir? Hi Scott.
I'm doing well to a
pretty string. Pretty good, because
I just finished your book.
Yeah, I saw you tweet
about it. Yeah. I tweeted
directly from my Kindle. I've
gotten in the habit of
finishing books on my Kindle
and then tweeting directly from
the Kindle and, and doing
it. And the best part
about it was that after
I finished the Amazon Kindle
said the next book is
coming out. I just told
you that. Yeah. So it's
like, there's two in the
series. Someone has added that
metadata. That's pretty cool. I
didn't realize that it did
that. I read books off
Kendall too. And the Kindle
app. So somehow they're pulling
that from some metadata Wikipedia.
And now that it knows
that there's the second one
in the series. So the
book was called zero day
and I don't know why,
but I think I thought
when I started it, that
it would be focused at
like me the nerd, but
it really bridges two worlds.
I mean, you can read
it and go, wow, that's
technically correct. And that's technically
correct, but at the same
time, it is a mainstream
novel. I mean, you want
regular people to read this
too, right? Yep. I definitely,
when I set out to
write the book, I wanted
to appeal to technical people
and I wanted somebody like
you to sit down and
read it and not go
cringe and cover your eyes
and go, that's just ridiculous
or, or hot from point
a to point B with
magic in the middle, which
I can't stand in books.
I like, if everything in
the book, I think I
hope you notice this, but
I try to make it
clear how things got from
point a to point B
I don't at least so
that you can figure out
how things got point from
point a to point B
and not that magic happened
or, you know, unexplained circumstances
got us the plot moving
forward kind of thing. But
I also wanted to appeal
to the mainstream audience to
educate them about what is
computer security and what's this
world that really everybody's living
in whether they realize it
or not. Would you say
that the essence of the
book was to scare or
to educate or a little
of both? It was a
little of both. Actually. I
think that this threat that
I portray in the book
is absolutely one that I
consider very realistic and I'm
surprised that it hasn't been
taken up. But up to
this point, I figured that
we would already pass the
book in reality some time
ago. And I was concerned,
actually it took so long
to get the book published
that it would be obsolete
by the time it came
out, it'd be viewed as
historical fiction. So in that
sense, I was lucky, but
I do think that it's
just a matter of time
before somebody that just nefariously
or maliciously just mischievously goes
out to cause destruction just
because they can, through this
means of using cyber weapons
malware to do so. Everyone
thought that everything was going
to fall apart at the,
in Y2K. And it didn't
not because the problem wasn't
pervasive. Cause it was, and
not because lots of things
didn't break cause they did,
but we did fall back
onto existing things and nothing
major broke. I mean, I
don't think any dams fell
over because of Y2K. Yeah.
Was it because of the
media overblow it or was
it because maybe computers aren't
as pervasive as we think,
and they aren't as important
as we think that they
are? Well, I think In
Y two K if you,
if you think computers were
pervasively used in around the
year 2000 it's orders of
magnitude more pervasive now just
literally last week, Obama published
an editorial in the wall
street journal, which starts out.
I was just called in
my top security advisors. The
water supply in major cities
had been polluted. The trains
had been derailed and yeah,
there was a simulation, it
was a simulation of a
cyber attack on our critical
infrastructure. And the reason that
he did that, that editorial
list up helped promote legislation.
That's trying to get its
way through Congress, to require
companies in the private sector
that are responsible for our
critical infrastructure, like water and
gas and electricity to AFT
to adhere to certain cyber
security guidelines that they don't
have to today, basically everybody's
on their own to do
whatever they want to, which
leaves us incredibly vulnerable to
this kind of stuff. You
know how, when you're out
in the world, you see,
you know, blue screens, but
not, not recent ones. And
for running Alaska airlines as
kiosks, or as you travel,
you spot these things. It
seems like a lot of
our security and a lot
of our infrastructure is running
on incredibly old operating systems.
Yeah. And even that's even
more so for the SCADA
type systems that scan it,
the supervisory control and data
acquisition systems that are used
to run like power plants
and generators and even centrifuges
like the ones used in
the Iranian nuclear program. Those
are both old and even
the new ones, they're just
not designed for an environment
where they're exposed to hostile
threats. They're really designed for,
Hey, you're putting this thing
into a controlled environment where
only trusted people in code
is accessing it. And so
we don't need to be
really rigorous about security. And
the fact is that that's
no longer the case. This
stuff is all basically exposed
to the internet either directly
or indirectly. As we saw
on the Iran, Iranian the
Stuxnet attack through USB keys
that came, walked into the
facility. And then the SCADA
systems are basically indirectly exposed
to CIA operatives sitting in
Virginia. And the, the fact
is that the system is
being used in this way.
Not they're not designed for
is part of that, a
weakness that we've got now
at this point. It's, but
it's the problem of technological
one or a social one
because you use the example
of USB keys. And I
always thought it was funny
that the real attack would
come when someone flew over
and dropped USB keys and
like any major corporations parking
lot, just picked them up,
you know, free, free DVDs
or whatever it put it
in. And boom, you're in,
I mean, that's USB keys
or associate. They are a
social problem. And actually well
doing a mass attack with
USB keys. I think people
would start to figure that
out, but you drop a
few in a parking lot
and actually anybody that's in
the penetration testing business knows
best way into the front
door of a business is
just dropping USB key in
the parking lot or a
few. Right. And then they're
going to show up on
the entrance in internal network
there. And, and if somebody's
going to click on a
whatever's on it to see
what's going on and that's,
they're inside the network at
that point. So that's a
social problem though. But I
mean, as we had it,
we can train people not
to do that. It's an
easy thing to get the
word out. We can change
the operating systems to do
different things around autoplay. And
I know that windows has
done that. And then the
culture of automatically doing something
upon user action is, is
changing. But what do we
have to do to the
operating systems to make these
things more secure? I mean,
these scatter systems were designed
10, 15, 20 years ago
or longer in a world
where there was a kinder,
gentler internet or no internet
at all. They're never going
to upgrade the people who
wrote those are retired. Yeah.
Well I think we either,
we face a hard problem
there. We've got to upgrade
them or we're going to
be left to insecurity because
part of the part of
it, like you said, is
social aspect of it. But
even if you train people,
the software still has vulnerabilities.
That can be exploited. So
I worked my way into
your network through some software
vulnerability. Now I'm in your
network. And then I get
into the SCADA system, which
has its own vulnerabilities. So
what we need is multiple
layers of defense. You need
best security practices at each
layer in the system is
certainly as you get more
towards the hardcore center, you
need, of course the training
that goes with that too,
for people to be secure,
but where you can, I
think technological solutions where people
don't have to remember to
be secure are the best
ones. And you see this
a trend towards creating these
kinds of technological solutions to
make our systems more secure
in the mobile space. If
you look at what Apple's
done with the app store,
basically that's white listing curated
white list. So the operating
system won't run anything that's
not been approved. And Apple's
got this very rigorous process
of approving the software that
goes in the app store.
And Microsoft's going to have
the same thing for our
app store for windows eight,
that we've seen how incredibly
successful that is when you
compare the kind of infections
that you've seen on iOS
devices, with what you see
on Macs even, or windows
devices, there's all been almost
no activity there. And the
activity that's been there has
been very controlled because once
it's identified, it's slapped down
pretty fast through the, the
hands that reached down from
the cloud and, and fix
things. So that's an example
of technology. That's really helping
address part of this problem
that social engineering ends up
causing. Now, it's not going
to be perfect. And there's
going to be cases where
the software running on these
devices is vulnerable. You have
the browser Hauser, vulnerability, and
you navigate to the wrong
place and you're going to
get something there. But then
technology can also take over
there with sandboxes that are
running in the LS to
try to contain the infection.
So when I Explain stuff
like this to my wife
or my mom or the
nontechnical people in my, in
my life, from their perspective,
you know, they take an
action and something happens and
it's their fault. So, you
know, whether they click on
word and they run word
or they click on evil
dot exe and something bad
happens, there's this kind of
half guilt. I clicked it.
It was my fault. And
then there's the also, well,
why didn't they protect me?
Yeah. We have things like
SmartScreen and different, you know,
antivirus definition type stuff. I
kind of get that of
the user space. But then
in the, in the book,
what is attack what's used
to attack us is what's
called a routine. Yeah. What
is that? Well, the root
kit is actually part, it,
it comes with the malware.
So the malware has to
get on your system. And
then once the malware is
on the system, they can
use root kit, technology, techniques,
and technologies to remain on
your system. And really what
does it take to remain
on your system? Part of
it is hidden. So you
look for me and I'm
not, you're not going to
see the malware. And the
other part is, of course,
even if you do see
part of me, it's possible
for you to remove me
once I'm there. Yeah. So
the root kit is really
a cloak, basically that the
malware puts on. Once it's
gotten into a system, Stuxnet
had example of this one.
And then, so the conceal,
the fact that it was
being transmitted by USB keys,
you'd stick in the USB
key. They would explain the
vulnerability in the operating system
to jump into the LS.
And this is independent of
autoplay. So it was exploiting
a vulnerability and Explorer. So
no action by the user
autoplay restrictions, didn't prevent this
thing from jumping onto computers.
And then once it was
in Explorer, it would install
a root kit filter in
Explorer so that you would
look at the USB key
and you wouldn't see the
Stuxnet files there. So the
instant you stuck, the key
in the files would effectively
disappear. So you wouldn't even
know that you'd gotten this
payload along with the USB
key once your machine was
infected. So that's an example
of a root kit there
that Stuxnet was using. So
he's rude Hit the, that,
that term, is that a
family of techniques? Yeah. It's
a whole family of techniques.
Basically. I, I kind of
summarize it as techniques that
the malware adopts to hide
its presence from standard administrative
diagnostic and security software Now
as a technical person. And
I know I've heard these
kinds of CSI essays, your
blog. I think we've all
had that experience where we've
opened up task manager and
we've said, what is that?
You know, you know, you
just have that open. I
know that in early versions
of windows, I had task
manager open pretty much all
the time, just sitting on
another window, cause I want
to know what's going on.
I wanted that insight. And
as soon as I spot
something on it, a family
member of his machine I'll
immediately figure out what's going
on. And when you do
these kinds of CSI things,
we dig in and you
say, Oh, look, it's an
active X control. And now
it's loading itself in the
registry. And then you delete,
delete, delete you run, you
know, crap cleaner and everything
is okay. I use saying
in a root clip, I
can right click on task
manager and it's there, but
it's not showing up when
some operating system level call
says enumerate processes, Right? That's
exactly what's going on. So
that's an example of not
hiding files, but hiding processes.
And this one's really common
as well for root kits.
So the what bill and
there's lots of different ways
they can do this from
manipulating the kernel data structures,
the list of processes. So
a user mode application like
task manager calls into the
Colonel says, get me the
list of processes. Well, the
process list data structures have
been manipulated so that the
malicious process is not even
on that list. So it's
returned from the kernel without
the malicious process, or it
can be done, but on
a, up in user mode.
So the Colonel routine returns
the full list, including the
malicious software, but the infected
processes, something running inside of
task manager then takes the
malicious process out of it.
List the tasks that it
then is handed back to
task manager for it to
display. And then there's lots
and lots of variants on
that same kind of technique
of hiding something from a
tool like task manager Is
it I've taken, you know,
operating system classes in college.
And I did mimics and
all the little tiny S
classes and things like that.
Or is this unique to
windows or is this operating
system theory kind of stuff?
This is operating system theory.
So yeah, it's not, not
like windows is especially vulnerable
to this kind of stuff.
Max, you can do this
and Lennox, you can do
this in minutes. You could
do this same kind of
thing, But how do you,
so how do you, you
know, you guys are all
here, we're here in building
one Oh nine and you
guys are kind of designing
the next version of windows.
Do you have to double
check everything in the sense
of at the, at every
moment the system is running
and it has to, I
don't know, Test its assumptions.
Yeah. There's windows itself have
to say, this is what
I know get processes looked
like when we shipped and
every minute on checking to
make sure it hasn't changed.
No, we're not really doing
that kind of thing. So,
so I'm working in the
windows Azure team, which is
developing a cloud operating system.
You could say we're developing,
delivering software into the data
center. And the question is,
is what did we deliver
it here? Actually, what's running
in the data center and
this is a place where
we've got standard images. So
we don't. So we actually
deploy images flat onto machines,
right? When we update them,
instead of taking a approach
where we go and just
send updated bits to the,
and what this does is
make sure that when we
say that, when we believe
that something's running on a
machine, that it is actually
that set of code that's
running on the machine, at
least when it's deployed. And
we can understand the state
of the machine as it
goes along, we haven't implemented
white listing in the operating
system and Azure for guests
or the hosts, but we're
working on implementing that as
well as an extra lockdown
of the systems that we've
got in place. So they,
the question that anybody has
of, of is what's running
on the machine, really what
I think is supposed to
be running a machine or
something, not something there that
shouldn't be. There is one
that everybody has to deal
with. And, and one that
there's no silver bullet for.
So I'll say even in
the face of having perfect
antivirus, having perfect white listing,
you know, take the iOS
device example that I gave
you earlier. If you go
to the app store and
there's a vulnerability, or if
you go to the web
using the browser and iOS,
and there's a vulnerability that
browser malware gets done on
the iOS device and it
runs in memory. So it's
not violating the white list,
but it's something that's active
on the device at that
point, then you're infected. And
really the only way to
clean it off is then
to reboot the device or
to get antivirus down there,
to go and clean it
off, you know, delete the
thing. So it's not like
there's a magical solution. That
means no malware is ever
going to be on anything,
no matter what, it's a
matter of, of trying to
make it harder and harder
and harder for malware to
do that, to get on
a machine. And then once
it's on the machine, I
think this is a key
part of cybersecurity is will
we'll see evolving is a
mining data to look for
malicious activity. Something that really
there's been some work, but
I think there's a long
way to go here. And
this is you're going to
see this become more popular
as big data techniques come
into play, where you can
analyze systems and look for
anomalous patterns of network traffic,
and find, you know, use
statistical algorithms to go and
help you pull that stuff
out and say, wait, there's
funny traffic going on from
this machine to this machine
over here that then ends
up going to this machine
that then ends up going
off into some server in
Hong Kong. So I believe that
this machine here at the
core of it is infected
and this you've got a
pipeline out of your network.
You're going to see, start
to see stuff like that
by analyzing network traffic and
log files. And Yeah, well,
I w I used to
work in online banking and
when we were shoving soap
around, they started putting stateful
firewalls in between machines to
look for things leaving. You
don't, you don't want any
other traffic than what is
expected, complete, complete white listed,
you know, traffic. Yeah. So
just another tool in the
bag of tools, but You
brought up something interesting because
you work here in Azure,
kind of a, not necessarily
downstream from windows server, but
you're kind of a client
of windows server, and you've
got this cloud-based operating system,
which isn't an operating system
of operating systems. Yeah. And
you said that when you
want to make sure that
the machine is in a
good state, you could do
all sorts of heuristics. Like
I kind made up right
there, but that really isn't
efficient, better to just torch
that machine and lay down
good bits again. Yeah. And
that was interesting to me
because in the book, a
great deal of time was
spent when one company was
attacked, looking for a backup.
I spent a great deal
of time going farther and
farther back in time to
make sure that they had
a good image because they
were concerned that they'd actually
backed up the, the virus.
Yeah. But I thought that
was interesting because they, they
were looking to, you know,
kind of TiVo their computer.
They just like, I, it
was good Tuesday. Can't we
just go back to that
last known good state. Yeah.
And it would be nice
to be able to do
that. And I think we've
got, actually, we've got that
now Does it's got that?
Yeah. Reset it to the
factory settings, you know, and
actually most mobile devices have
that as well. Right. Reset
it to the fact that
I've done that several times.
My iPhone just torched it
and went back to where
it was. Yeah. Interesting. One
of the things that also
struck me in the book
was that there was a
lot of like thought and
talking, you didn't kind of
cover up anything with action.
I think it was a
lot of pros and I
kept wondering like something in
a breakout into an action
thing. It's like, no, this
is two people sitting down
and actually analyzing it. So
it was almost like we
were there over the shoulder
of the protagonists as they
were having this conversation. So
I compliment you in the
sense that you didn't dumb
it down. Yeah. I mean,
I felt like if you
can make a cyber cyber
thriller, that's really thriller with
no cyber. And I think
there's lots of people that
do that. Yeah. The people
that are most more focused
on just thriller genre, that
we'll toss cyber terms in
there, but it's really just
a week just sprinkling cyber
across their book. But I
really wanted to make it
really about cybersecurity And the,
the, the backgrounds of the,
of the people that, how
they got into security and
the kinds of analysis that
they use. And some, the
protagonist came in, you know,
kind of through a more
government way to learn what
he learned while the, the
female protagonists came in at
a different direction. We always
based on people that you
knew or came upon, are
these realistic portrayals of how
people get into security. I
think they're realistic portrayals. The
only character that I think
is more, more based on
a real person is the
main protagonist Jeff Aiken. He
was kind of based on
me. So actually, yeah. Right.
Exactly. And I think I,
I saw that this is
a common pattern with first
time authors is they're kind
of autobiographical their first novels,
there's their themselves projected in
the book and somehow some
manner and Jeff Akins kind
of a projection of me
into the book When you
were, when you were writing
it, you had made the
comment a minute ago that
you didn't want to jump
over anything. There was a,
there was a linear structure
to it in a, in
a, in a focus that
felt like a programmer. Did
you have anyone who worked
with you on it to
make sure that the narrative
flow is the same? Or
did you, did you write
this light code? I'm interested
in the process? Did I
write it like code? I,
you know, you said nothing,
you, I did, why I
did whiteboard. I did plan
the plot ahead of time
with less detail towards the
end than the beginning, but
I did have a structure
like, okay, then this is
going to happen roughly, and
then this next step is
going to happen. This next
step is going to happen.
And how do I make
these things all line up?
So kind of like building
a, you know, a framework
there where I wanted all
these different pieces and lines
to, to come together in
a way that would be
interesting. The challenging thing about
it is Trojan horse. The
SQL got more complex. So
it became a harder problem
for me to solve, to
have all the plot lines
come together in an interesting
way where I didn't have
to hand wave through things
and where I didn't re
cover turf that had already
covered in zero day. So
I'm actually working on a
plot for the third book
and the Jeff Hakan series.
And that one's even more
challenging because it's like, Oh,
I can't use that device
because I use that in
Trojan horse. I can't use
that because I used it
in zero day. I don't
want people to go reading
through the book and go,
Oh yeah, I remember that
from book two, but really
it to be fresh. So
it's, it's kind of fun
because they're brain teasers that
are getting harder as I
go along. Do you think
that would be challenging though,
because I think from a
layman's perspective, computers are kind
of boring and stodgy, but
from our perspective, you know,
there is an infinite number
of cool and interesting things
that could go on. But
then when you Uplevel that
to a plot point, someone
could just say, okay, a
program fights the computer and
that's not interesting anymore. Well,
they, like I said, I
want it, part of the
reason for the books are
as educational as well as
entertainment. So the first book
educating about a real threat
that I believe in, and
the second part is educating
people about cybersecurity. The second
book, Trojan horse is educating
people about the cyber state-sponsored
cyber espionage, which is something
that's going on all over
the place. Like what, how
do governments carry this out?
What do they, how do
they use cyber espionage to
further their national interests and
how do they work against
each other? I wanted to
educate that by making a
story that is based loosely
on things that we actually
see going on these days
and the same time making
entertaining and the inner. So
the books, if you look
at the structure that I've
kind of set upon, it's
the first part first a
quarter to a third is
kind of how the story
starts to build as the
computer cyber stuff happens. Like
what's the infection and who's
being hacked and how they're
being hacked. And this is
where you see Jeff analyzing
stuff. And then it starts
to roll faster and faster
into more action. As you
know, there just life's in
danger or just trying to
stop something really horrible from
happening. And then it ends
up boiling down into the
end. It's like pure thriller.
Right. I thought, I thought
it was interesting also that
there was a personal aspect
to it in that you
didn't make the, cybercriminal this
kind of nameless, faceless, you
know, evil person. And I
know sometimes, you know, when
I get a virus, I'm
just like, Oh man, those
guys, but it's, it's very
abstract, but there was an
actual human in a room
with a wife and a
life and an apartment. And,
you know, he, he moved
from one apartment to another
and that's like very kind
of denial details, but it
reminds you that when you
get attacked or you get
that mean toolbar, that you're
wondering is that malware or
not, there was a human
being that pays rent and
goes to the store who
did that? Yeah, It was
a conscious choice to actually,
and this is another example
of not wanting to hand
wave or go from point
a to point B without
a sound explanation for how
the plot move forward. I
didn't want to have faceless
criminals behind the whole thing
that just get unveiled at
the very end, as diabolical
people that have magical powers
to wreck cyber terror, but
actually show really what's going
on. And it's part of
the education and part of,
I think, trying to make
a thriller that people see
anchored in reality, kind of.
So it was a very
conscious choice and actually to
put a human face on
some of the characters, the,
the person you're talking you're
talking about in the book,
he really isn't evil. He
doesn't even really know that
he's part of this plot.
And so that kind of
comes out too, that not
everybody involved in something like
this necessarily realize the implications
of what they're doing, Right.
And just as they are
themselves building a distributed system
for attack, they are part
of a larger human distributed
system where he was, he
was taking pieces of things
and assembling something. But he
was also the piece of
a larger thing that was
being assembled by, by someone
else, which, which makes one
wonder in the context of,
of terrorism or kind of
nefarious plans, is it simply
the will to do it?
That is preventing us from
being attacked again, whether it
be attacked in something is
as base as an airplane
into a tower or something
as subtle comparatively subtle as
a, as a cyber attack.
It's just simply, no one
has just sat down and
said, we're going to do
this thing. Yeah. I think
it's lack of vision really
is. What's the only reason
that we haven't had it
happen so far, because if
you kind of stick a
step back and say, how
much would it cost to
do something like this? Even
something that is mild, mildly
has a mild chance of
causing destruction. It's actually pretty
low bar in terms of
budget. If you look at
the budget that Al Qaeda
had prior to nine 11,
they were making several million
dollars a year. And the
arcade attack itself cost a
few hundred thousand dollars. They
estimate. So the kinds of
numbers that you're talking about
for hiring some competent hackers
in Russia or China, to
help you out where they
don't even have to know
what they're doing is it's
a pretty low bar in
terms of number of organizations
that are, would be capable
of outsourcing that kind of
work to cause one of
the big pushbacks I got
from people, as I told
them, started talking about the
plot is, Oh, no terrorists.
They're not sophisticated enough to
this. I'm like, you don't
get it. They don't have
to be, they just have
to know that they, that
this is a weapon that
can use. And then they
pay people that are sophisticated
enough and there's lots of
people and they can pay.
When you write a book
about something like this, are
you concerned ever that you're
giving people an idea? Like
whenever people have just read,
we just have this attack
in, in Aurora, Colorado, and
people are trying to analyze
it. And the first complaint
that comes up is like,
Oh, there you go. Now
you're given the bad guy's
ideas. Yeah. I don't, well,
I don't believe in that
giving the bad guy's ideas.
I mean the bad guys
are going to come up
with their ideas on their
own. The, I mean, yeah,
just, I think that that's
a foolish to think that
if you don't talk about
it, nobody's going to figure
it out. Cause people will
figure it out. And in
fact, it's better to talk
about it before they figure
it out. So you can
figure, you can determine what
we're, what's our reaction. Are
we going to do something
proactively to try to prevent
it? Or are we just
going to wait for it
to happen and then react
like, Oh my God, I
can't believe they figured it
out. The really ironic thing.
Speaking of giving people ideas
kind of ironic and really
kind of gives me some
pride is that one of
the blurbs I got for
the book, when you write
a book you're supposed to
go out and get blurbs
from other authors that people
recognize that will say something
nice about your book. And
one of the blurbs I
got for zero day was
from Nelson DeMille who wrote
the book that had the
airplane flying into buildings that
people pointed at when nine
11 happened saying, he's the
one that gave him the
idea. Then he gave me
a blurb for my book,
which is kind of nine
11 cyber version, which I
think I don't want it
to play out the same
way, but it's kind of
interesting that I, that I,
that kind of coincidence. How,
how worried should, should one
be like, you know, you're
as, as, as educated and
as inside as one could
possibly be on this, if
you're worried that I'll be
worried. Yeah. Well, how so?
How were it? Should you
be worried? Should I be,
I think you should be
pretty worried. I think that
the, you know, the legislation,
that's trying to go through
Congress, for example, to try
to put incentives and regulation
on private sector, running our
critical infrastructure. I strongly believe,
and I strongly believe we
need it. I believe that
that if we let private
industry do what it wants
to do, it's not incentive
really to invest money and
expertise into this, which I
believe we need. And there's
plenty of examples we've seen
up until now about the
poor state of cybersecurity. I
mean, there's every week, there's
something that happens that you
just look at it and
go really, I, you know,
passwords that aren't encrypted and
pass weak passwords and software.
That's not patched in several
years. I mean, all of
this has been on the
headlines over the last few
years. And two examples of
some guy that was taped,
took pictures of the display
on a control system for
water outside of a town
outside of Houston, it's small
town. He just hacked in,
you know, within a few
minutes with very little expertise
in scatter systems, but it
was able to get in
right into the control system
of the water supply to
another one of my favorite
examples of penetration, the company
that does penetration testing that
was hired by the city
of Los Angeles to penetrate
the do pen testing on
their water supply within 24
hours, they got into the
water supply computers to the
point where they could have
an altered the chemical mix
to a significant part of
the County. Wow. And so
that, I mean, that's really
the state that we're in.
I don't think we can
underestimate how bad things really
are out there. I mean,
there's certain spots, right? Where
there's good cybersecurity, but for
the most part, I think
we've got a lot of
weakness. There was a thing,
I think it was an
Oregon, a couple of maybe
a year ago where they
hacked into the department of
motor vehicles signs. It said,
you know, you know,
zombies ahead saying that. Yeah.
That's somebody who's been doing
it here in Seattle. Really?
Yeah. That's the last few
weeks. And see, that's not,
that's a combination of physical
security and cyber security. They
just literally bring their laptop
and they busted into them.
They plug it into the
sign. Hopefully that's the least
of the attacks that we'll
see. Yeah. I actually, there
was another one yesterday, somebody
at black hat doing a
talk on how locks it,
this company that makes locks
from major hotel chains, the
electronic locks that there's a
plug where you can connect
to the wire to lock
itself to the lock itself.
And the protocol that this
device, that lock device has,
let's lets you read the
Ram of the device. So
there's a cryptographic key in
there, but you can suck
it out. And then given
the key, you can then
unlock the door. You use
it as a master key
to unlock the door. So
that's another, that's an example
of where they actually had
some good security, but then
one weakness and You can't
one can't even consider why
someone would want to attack
something. I mean, a year
ago I I'm diabetic. I
run into have an insulin
pump. Yeah. A black cat
attacked an insulin pump, overflowed
its buffers over a radio
frequency and caused it to
give a least a lethal
dose of, of insulin. Like,
wow, really? I mean, is
that, is that what we're
going to do? But of
course, the point of that
was to prove that it
could be done and then
spur everyone into action. Is
that what needs to happen?
The giant attack. And then
we get scared and then
we fix that Just human
nature, right? I mean, people
talk about it all day
long and then there's this
very much. I don't believe
you unless you prove it
to me. And Eva, what's
shocking in this case is
the evidence has been all
around us. It's been a,
a low hum of evidence
and people get kind of
immune to hearing about it.
Oh, well there was another
attack, but nothing really big
happened. So no big deal
let's move on. Oh, well
another attack, nothing really big
happened. And it's just gonna
be a matter of time
before something really big happens.
And then people say, Oh
my God, we should have
done something. You know how
we let this happen, but
that's just, I think human
nature. So what are the
URLs that people can check
out to learn about the,
the Jeff Hakan series of
books? Russinovich.com is the site
to go, to got information
about all my books, including
the nonfiction books that I
write as well and links
to where you can buy
them and receive reviews on
them. Cool. And zero day
is in stores now and
on Amazon and Trojan horse
comes out in September. Yep.
So early beginning of September,
I also have a Jeff
Hakan short story. That's the
only 99 cents ebook Kindle and
all the ebook vendors, major
ebook vendors. That's coming out
in August, I think August 8th.
Great, cool. You know what
you should do. Here's an
idea for your third book
is you should make sure
that there's malware in the
ebook that gives other people
copies of the ebook. Yeah.
Spread it like a virus.
It could be a thing.
Thanks so much for talking
to me. Thanks Scott. Thanks
for having me on this
has been another episode of
Hanselminutes and we'll see you
again next week.